Yeah, I don't feel guilt. I didn't I didn't grow up with a with a Western religion. There's no guilt in Eastern religions. Oh, you want to go? Hey, we just did the political that came out this morning, the political episode. Do we do a religion episode this morning?
Is that where we're going? Yeah, I mean, I have I think I have some funny concepts.
Do you do you follow the news? Like do you have news sources that you consume? I think stuff makes it to me, but I don't think I follow the news. I don't think I there's not there's no, like, no, I don't I don't follow the news. If I think about all that stuff, I check.
I check Twitter and I check Feedly, you know, my sources on Feedly are just related to my work. Like an RSS reader? Yeah, exactly. I wait. Feedly is kind of crazy for me because I have been using it every single day. I probably hasn't been a day that I haven't opened it in the past, like, 15 years, maybe.
But whenever Google Reader died, if you look up, whenever Google Reader, I remember Google Reader. It's maybe 15 years, maybe it's been a little bit less. But I think I've used it every single day. And I actually wonder, like, am I their most active user or like, whatever metric they imagine? I mean, literally number one on the X. I mean, I clear it every single day. And it's been a habit. I've been the only habit I've kept for so long.
But yeah, the source, go ahead. There's no chance. You, what's that movie? Night of the Roxbury or something? You know, me? No, you night of the rocks.
No, not night of the Roxbury. It's like the guy he's like just done Coke and he's standing up there to press conference. And he's like, you, you, you, me, you, like, who's going to talk next? And he's just like freaking out. I think it's the guy from Night of the Roxbury, but it's not that to movie.
Somebody, anybody help me, please. Someone knows this reference. It is night at the right. It is night at the Roxbury. Apparently that is a movie.
It's not the Roxbury. Why did I think night at the Roxbury was like not a movie? What did I think it was even?
I don't even know what that is. Okay. You don't know what? Never mind.
Well, I just get thrown off when you make a pop culture reference because it's like, I mean, it's a 20 year old movie, probably. So all of my references are like, they skipped a decade.
Okay. That was 11, 20 years ago. You were 11, 20 years ago. Oh, you're 30. Wow.
You are younger than me. I mean, just like five years. I'm 36.
Yeah. I'm still in the old man section. I think, okay, forming on Twitter.
Really quick. You said something. You said you wonder if you're the biggest feedly user.
And I wonder often my wife and I talk about if we're the biggest customers at Mama jeans, which is our local health food store.
We spend like, I don't know, all of our money there every month and have for years.
And we get invited like VIP things that they have, like they have these little like we've never gone.
But like, I just, I'm positive we're the biggest customer at Mama jeans.
Like I don't know if Mama Jean herself would ever listen to this podcast. She wouldn't.
But if she ever heard it, I'd love to get confirmation.
I'd love someone to tell me that we are the number one customer. I'm just, I'm positive.
It feels so good to have a spot that you're like, so loyal to.
I definitely want that. It feels like a second home.
Like when we moved away, I missed our home, obviously our family and like all that.
But I missed Mama jeans, like going into Mama jeans, even if when we weren't living,
we had sold our home that we loved to move to Florida. When we came back,
it's like we were in this little rental and it sucked while we were building.
We hated the place, but we went to Mama jeans and it felt like.
Yeah. We're home. Yeah. Anyway, okay.
Liz has that with a, with our coffee shop here that, with the one in her neighborhood
that she walks to and ahead of time, she was like, I want Pete.
I want them to like know me. I want to like be a notable customer.
And she hit a milestone where somebody like knew her order before she ordered it.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I made it.
Our problem at Mama jeans is, well, they have three locations that,
but we mostly go to the one, but they turns out like grocery stores, a lot of turnover.
So like the crew from, I don't know, eight years ago that we,
when we first started going to Mama jeans, a lot of them have left and it's new people,
but there are a few people who've literally watched my kids grow up.
Like a guy named Antoine, who does a lot of the stocking.
He, he's just like every time he sees Asa. It's what's up little dude.
He says that to him every time. It's like since he was tiny and now he's eight and it's crazy.
Anyway, let's see those arcs. There you go.
Yeah. I mean, I think about that even my street.
I'm like, if I really commit, I'm definitely committed to my neighborhood.
But I was like, if I take it further and I commit to my street, my neighbor had really small kids.
It's going to be really weird to see them like go off to college one day.
Yeah. Really bizarre. Yeah.
I mean, I've been in this neighborhood now for like we, the first home was eight years ago.
We were gone for a couple of years. Anyway, yeah, I've seen we've seen some kids.
You know, it just doesn't seem right. It's so weird when kids that you knew and they were little
are now like driving and then graduating. And yeah, it's bizarre.
Yeah. It's weird. Okay. Okay. Religion. Let's do it. Fine. Fine.
Wait, wait, but what? But you asked me about news and never followed up.
Oh, oh, yeah. No, I just, oh, just I like, I don't know.
Like the recently people are talking about submarine on Twitter.
I've only seen like two people mention it, but they were very distraught.
And it just reminded me that like, I don't know about these things unless
someone asked me to go look it up. Like I don't have any inputs.
Like Twitter now for me is just our friends, the people that I, you know,
associate pretty closely with. I get on Twitch here.
If somebody doesn't say it on Twitter or in Twitch chat, I don't know it happens.
And I don't know. Is that bad? Am I like a bad citizen, not connected or something?
I was surprised when, because I saw you reply being like, what submarine?
And I was like, I'm kind of surprised. I was surprised that you didn't know about it.
And it actually made me think like, wow, I was like way more insulated than I thought.
Cause I, I also only heard about it because people were talking about it on, on Twitter.
Did you see, do you see a lot of people talking about it? Cause I, I even saw you,
I think say something about, or maybe Warren said something about, like,
can't do the memes or you can't handle people joking about it.
I haven't seen any memes or jokes about it. I've literally seen Annie say that
she was kind of distraught over it. And that's it. I've not seen anything else.
Yeah, that's what I'm trying to remember. I could, I feel like I've been seeing it everywhere,
but then I actually don't know where everywhere is. I need to pay more attention to this because I
actually, I must have seen it somewhere else. But I was realizing, I don't know where all this
stuff is making it into my, into my brain. It might be, it actually might be feed leak is
feed leads connected to hacker news. And hacker news is like, a lot of tech stuff,
but just like other interesting stuff that's happening. That's like, maybe relevant to everyone.
Yeah. I don't read hacker news. That's always like, I've always felt like an imposter when I,
I know like, Oh, there's a whole site for just us and like hackers go there and read stuff.
And I just have never enjoyed it. I don't know. I never rely on it.
It's funny because I have such mixed feelings on it because the most annoying people on the planet
are there. I mean, you're there. That's like when you see someone at a place you're kind of
embarrassed to be. It's like, well, wait, why are you here? But what? But I'm here. But why are you?
You should be embarrassed. Hey, I saw, I saw Aaron Francis there once. Oh, really? I see everyone
there. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because he actually writes really good stuff and it ends up there.
So he has to be there. He does not seem like the kind of person that would be in the comments.
No, I saw him in a comment, but it was a really typical Aaron Fatch. It was a nice,
positive process. Yeah, exactly. I'm now remembering this is before this is when I first started
following him on Twitter and we didn't know we didn't know each other that well. And it was a
thread about people hating Twitter. And he was in there being like, I don't know. I have a good
time on there. And I was like, Oh, yeah, I know you. I was having a good time on there. But okay,
so obviously most annoying people and I want to be more specific about this. The problem with the
Hacker News audience is that they're not dumb. They're smart. They're they can think about things
and they can like form pretty convincing arguments and follow logic. This is why you're on it and
I'm not. It's so perfect yourself. I mean, it's perfect. Like I can't form solid arguments and
you're somebody who can be like, that's the whatever principle. So you belong there and I don't go
ahead. No, no, you gotta let me finish my thought because the entire problem is a majority of the
audience takes that skill and directs it in like the dumbest way. Like they will use their
ability to form cohesive thoughts to conclude something that makes zero sense at all. But with
like paragraphs of stuff that we read, it's like, this doesn't make sense. And you step back and
you're like, wait, this actually makes no sense at all. But then technically it makes sense. You
know, it's this really weird combination of like, if they were just dumb, that would be a lot simpler.
If they were just genuinely smart, they probably would have said something simple. But they're like,
there's a weird zone where they can like make all these complex things. And then you realize
what they're actually talking about. And you're like, that just makes no sense. So that's why I
hate it. That's one thing I noticed on Hacker News. The time I end up there, it's like how long
the comments are people really, they put a lot of time into their Hacker News comments.
Yeah. What's the motivation there? Have you done that? Like, I feel like if you're there,
you've probably commented like, do you write a big thing because you want to convince somebody
of something or you want to look like you fit in or what is it? No, I never written anything big.
It just brief things here and there where I can chime in. I'm going to dig through your
profile. Can you actually see people's posts? I don't know. I'm going to find one. You can.
You can. It's all out there then. Oh, yeah, you're a YC. You're part of a YC company.
You're a YC founder. But what? What does that have to do with anything? Well, it's just like,
it's kind of like your little place where you're cool. I've been going to Hacker News for a very
long time. Yeah, of course. Ten years, probably. I was just doing everything 10 years ago. I told
you this. All I have is for five years ago. So true. The next year, everything will be 11 years.
That's just how it goes. Ever since I've been like a developer for 12 years, I've rounded up to 15.
I've been a software developer for like 15 years. Roughly. Yeah, it's hard to say. Yes,
very annoying people. And that's like, that kind of it's annoying to read that stuff.
That said, some of the most important technologies I've ever used, I've discovered from there. Like,
I found Elixir really just kept popping up on Hacker News and it hit a threshold. We're like,
I need to check this out because it's popped up enough times. And that was like really formative
for me in a really important moment. So I continue to go there because, you know, if anything is
out there that shows up that is going to be interesting to me, it's going to end up there.
The second thing is, yes, there's a lot of annoying people, but there's also some really
genuinely smart people on like the most on the randomest topics that I don't know about. And I
do get a lot of value from actually read the comments. It's weird because I was just complaining
about it. I think I read the comments more than actual articles because, yes, there's always
annoying people. There's also the person that is like just an expert in something that like lays
it out really well. So you feel like it's good, a good use of time. I should look into it.
If I'm smart enough. If you don't even look into it, but for me,
yeah, you don't know if I should look into it. I know what that means. I don't know if you should
look into it. I don't know if you quite make the cut, but yeah, just let me summarize it for you.
You don't have to go look into it. Okay. Yeah. You do. I mean, I said something the other day about how
you just you just have this ability to like summarize and distill and all that. And you said it's just
because you've read like 10 years ago, you read a bunch of books that now you can just ride that
forever. It feels that way. Maybe there's just not that many ideas in the world. I feel like
there could be infinite ideas in the world. Yeah, but there's like there's like there's like eight
core things that are true and then everything is just an extrapolation of those things combined
in different ways. And why is that like, like when it comes to human stuff, like just social,
societal, philosophic, like when it comes to like, I think of like physics, it's like there's laws or
whatever or is there, I don't know that they figure out there aren't it's actually all right. I don't
know. But like physics, I can wrap my head around that with people stuff. Why are there like fundamental
laws that kind of govern the way things will play out? I think there's just a difference between
something being complicated and something being complex where physics stuff is really complicated,
but it's not complex in the sense of like a billion human beings interacting with each other,
all different combinations of things that can happen. You know, there's always some stat where like,
there's more combinations of this than like atoms in the universe, like the combination,
yeah, that's what I think about when they buy complexity. So I think when you have situations
like that, there's like so few global truths and laws that work. Again, this is also just from
one of the books that I read. I was going to say, you just kind of did the thing where you just
add like an answer to a very weird and complicated question. But this is also that it wasn't this
in that scalebook that you read. Oh, maybe I love how you haven't even read it. I've read it and
you know the principle and I don't. I shouldn't read the book. I should just talk to Liz is what
you're saying. I was going to say my brain isn't distracted by hundreds of pages in the book. I just
stored like a one, the one that you need information. Yeah. That's just another tidbit from a book
since you probably haven't read it. Astrophysics for people in a hurry. I've heard of that, but I
have not read it. It's the guy. What's his name? I can't think of his name. Neil Tyson DeGrasse.
Neil DeGrasse Tyson. The grass. Neil DeGrasse, I was like close.
Okay. You were right. I mixed up the name. Okay. Yeah. That guy.
There's a part in the book. Maybe this was from scale, actually. I think it was actually from scale.
No, no, it's only like 10 books. I matter. Yeah. No, it really is from the Neil,
whatever one. So in a cup of water, this just blows my mind. Have you heard this? In a cup of
water. Oh, I haven't told you yet. There are more molecules in a cup of water than there are other
cups of water on earth. There are so many more molecules. You could put 15,000 molecules
from one cup of water into every other cup of water on earth. That blows my mind that it gets
that small. I think of things on the big end, astrophysics, all that stuff, but on the tiny end,
it's way bigger than I realized, way more. There's way more depth there.
Yeah. It's like mind boggling like some of these realities that we just go about day to day.
And it's like, it feels like the craziest sci-fi concept. Like, I mean, the other classic thing
with that is, I don't remember exactly, but you know how atoms and molecules are mostly space.
And it's like, it's something like if you just took the mass. Oh, like between the electrons and
that. Yeah. You just took the mass and put it all together. It's like some shockingly small like
amounts, but you like touch your desk when it feels solid and hard, but it's like technically
mostly space. Man, this is a great time to get into the religion conversation. I feel like
we're talking about deep stuff. Yeah. What is our religion? We've kind of had this conversation
together privately. What's it going to look like here? The thing that comes up for me is,
because Liz grew up Catholic, and I grew up basically without any real strong religion.
Yeah. Technically, my family is Hindu, but it just wasn't that it's a weak religion is what
you're saying, Hindu. Yeah. We're putting that on tape. We're going to put that on.
Actually, it's relevant. Like it's so extremely fragmented. And like from the beginning,
the original ideas were like, kind of like think, think and make up stuff on your own.
So like over the thousands of years, it's like, it's just so fragmented. There's not like a strong
identity or like strong rules around it. Yeah. Everyone has their own flavor. So it's pretty
different. And the other thing that me and Liz always talk about is, my conclusion on this is
just the way we were raised because of religion stuff. It might be that I'm a bad person, but let me
explain. Everyone that listed this, we all jump to the same conclusion that you are a bad person,
but go ahead. She's constantly thinking about morality and right and wrong and what is right
and what is wrong and like feeling guilt and like, there's this heavy like guilt thing with
everything she thinks about or does. Yeah. And everyone talks about it. Everyone talks about
the Catholic guilt concept. And I just do not have that. Like I'm mostly just thinking about like,
does this make sense? Does this make me feel good or like, you know, I don't know. I'm never
thinking about it like, is this moral or am I a good or bad person if I do this? Yeah, for her,
that's like a very natural way for her to think because of, and we've concluded it's because
how we were raised differently. Whereas the guilt concept is not as much of a thing
in the religion that I grew up in. Yeah. So I would say the religion that I grew up in,
which is Christianity, there's there's some guilt. Well, I mean, I wouldn't say there's guilt. I would
say like, it's you can't summarize a group of people's beliefs based on your experiences. Like,
I know there are people who hold those beliefs all over the world that don't display them in the
way that the people around me did growing up. Yeah, I guess I should get some context. This is
going to be hard. Actually, this is we're getting into some like, difficult things to talk about
because of like, just when you go from like being raised in one setting, or one context,
and then you change that in adulthood, it's very hard. Like it's extremely hard to like,
leave prior belief systems behind, at least from my experience, it's been tough. And my wife's,
she didn't grow up in it. Like I did though, like I grew up my whole life in Christianity.
And I think in adulthood, started asking questions that it just didn't, it didn't resonate with me,
mostly because I think the place I live in the world, like I think if I had grown up,
you know, on the west coast of America, even it looks a lot different there than it does
here and what they call the Bible Belt. There's just a lot of a lot of things that bother me about
the people that I was closest with, and the way they display their beliefs. And yeah, I would say
like, today, I just, and it feels really good to not try to have answers to every single thing,
which is what I felt like everyone around me growing up had to have, it's like they had
to build up this framework that protected their mind, or they would just fall apart.
Not dissimilar to how I fell apart on our last episode. Just like needing to have answers
to every single question. And I think I feel really good now in adulthood after like a five,
six year journey of this, just not knowing much of anything and enjoying almost the mystery of all
of this. Like I can look at everything around me now and look at the vastness of space and the
tininess of whatever atoms or molecules. And like, it just blows me away. And it does make me feel some
sense of something in my tiny little robot heart. But it's just like not needing to have answers.
I guess I do like, I'll say that like, as somebody who's very into science and very into like,
I don't know, modern thinking is what I'll call it. I do kind of feel like, I don't know,
there's just some things there's no answers to. And I'm okay with that. Like, why? Why did all
of this happen? Okay, I'm going to stop talking. I've said too many words. Go ahead.
No, no, that's good. I think it's funny because you're the way the place you jumped to was,
I think, yeah, because that big part of it is like giving answers to things. And a lot of ways,
sometimes I'm like jealous of that, because like you said, it protects you in a lot of ways.
Yeah. Sometimes I'm like, I mean, I don't think I would actually choose it, but I can see like,
what's nice about that, you know, because it takes a while to be okay with not having
answers to certain things. Yeah, it's funny, though, because I think just this is just what
I've learned through talking to Liz and kind of seeing our family operates. Their version of
religion doesn't seem as that part of it doesn't seem as relevant, really, like the here's how
everything works and here's how where we came from, et cetera. Yeah, I feel like, and this might be
just the Cuban thing or maybe it's like the cat, the difference between Catholic and Christianity,
but I don't think it's that I feel like it's for them, it's more like, it's really just about the
good and bad thing. Like here's the things we have to do to be good and like they're always
striving to do those things. Some of those things are like genuinely good. Other things are kind
of arbitrary, like you should go to church every Sunday or whatever, just kind of rules that that
every religion has. Yeah, and I feel like they actually don't think about the larger existential
stuff that answers for you. Yeah, it's a funny thing. I think the other thing that's weird about
or interesting about their setup is, I mean, with every, like you said, every local flavor
of religion is a little bit different. And for them, it comes from Catholicism in the Caribbean.
So a lot of it is like weirdly mixed in with like voodoo stuff. There's actually a whole like
branch of it that's a, that's things called Santeria, which is like it's Catholicism, but like island
magic combined together. Yeah, you had like a nice little like role of the are there or whatever
that letter was. That was nice. You sounded like a yeah. Yeah, I've been here for almost a year.
I got it. I got to get that right. And like there's some people that are hardcore into that,
but it's like a really weird mix. It's like the traditional stuff you imagine, but it's also stuff
you never associate with it like like these crazy like tribal rituals and things. Yeah,
but Liz is dead. They're not, they're not like that hardcore into that, but they do do some things
like that like these little like, it's like magic. So when Liz applies for a job or like tries to
try and like get funding or whatever. And if she ever tells her dad about her, her dad will ask
who's the name? What's the name of the person that like makes a decision? And he writes their name
down on a piece of paper and freezes it in a nice cube. Oh, wow. And that's like tech. Yeah. So
that's like technically like part of the religion, but yeah, I'm sure you technically are in the
same neighborhood of religion, you've probably never heard of anything like that. No, no, no,
yeah, no. Yeah. I've heard that one. There's some snake handling I've heard of, but go ahead.
Sorry. Wait, snake handling. Oh, if you never heard of that one? No.
There are, I think it's, I think it's Christianity. There are sects of Christianity that they handle
snakes. I don't know. I think it might have been in the Bible, but they handle snakes like the
snake won't bite them because they're protected. Interesting. I think like on stage at church, I think
I could be wrong. I could be mixing up. It could be another religion. And I'm sorry if it was.
I mean, that sounds like an Indian thing to me. Like when I think of handling snakes,
like with the flute and the snake coming out of the basket. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Like, yeah, yeah.
The cobra kind of lifts up the lid. Yeah. Are we going to, are we just like going to
offend everybody in the world and this podcast? Like, did we just write off any chance of anybody
liking either of us? So far, we've only talked about ourselves. That's true. So yeah, we're not
poking at anybody else. It's our experiences within our religious backgrounds, or non-religious,
or easy. What would you call your weak, weak, religious backgrounds? Yeah, it's like, yeah.
But going back to original point, yeah, like it's, it's weird to me that, I mean,
I just love the way I normally do it. I don't think about it, but until like me and Liz are
talking about this, like, yeah, she's like, thinks, like this guilt thing is such a good, such a thing.
And I guess for you, that Quovin is like the way the universe is, is kind of like constantly a thing.
Yeah. Like, okay, I'm going to say some things. And Chris, I'm going to let Chris
decide whether these things stay in the podcast. You're wincing. Are you wincing that?
I'm not wincing. Oh, you're smiling. Oh, you're smiling. You revel in these moments.
I guess, like, for me to get more specific about the kind of things that really, like,
turned me off from Christianity, just growing up in like this setting where I honestly,
I look at it now. I know hyperbole. I feel like it's brainwashing. Like the kind of things that
children are subjected to, just the amount of fear and the amount of like, you're going to die and
burn in hell if you don't accept this. And here's what it means. And then you're going to be worried
for the rest of your life. If you did something wrong, and I know, like, people are going to say,
like, people with proper theology are going to say, that's not how it's supposed to be. And I'm
sorry, you're subjected to that. Maybe it's just a regional thing. But yeah, there's just a lot
of things about modern day Christianity and just their stances on a lot of things just bother me a
lot. And I guess I got to a point where I asked enough questions to break out of the framework
that had been instilled in my brain and like other influences and just other like, you come like,
you get on the internet, you're connected with people all over the world. You get this outside
perspective, growing up in the Ozarks, like before the internet, you think I have no inputs now,
like, I had no inputs, like, it's funny because that technically exists here as well. But it's
almost like funny because it's not it's like so not effective. I think it's because like, reality
is Miami is like, it's like a city and it's like a very like, in a lot of ways, it's like,
parts of it are like the opposite of like religion. Everyone here is Catholic. So it's so ineffective
because like, Liz will tell me stories of doing all the traditional stuff for like,
you went to a Catholic school, they made them promise XYZ things. They like, straight up told
them, they're like, you're going to go, you're going to go to college and like, people are going
to say all these things and like, and challenge your faith and all of that. And just so ineffective,
because that's literally what happens. Like, everyone just leaves and like, you're just, you're
like, you're, so it's not effective here at all. So just kind of funny to like, and everyone went
through this process and almost everyone arrives at like, you know, maybe not any extreme place,
like maybe find like the right balance for them. Yeah. So for us, it's like not like a
upsetting thing. It's just like a comical thing. But then it sounds like for you, it's like,
it actually is very effective in terms of like limiting how people think or what they expose
themselves. Yeah. I think so. Yeah. I mean, I think in this area, yeah, I'll kind of lay
off some of the specific examples. But if we're talking about religion, I have to bring up the
closest thing to Christianity that I would say did resonate with me or kind of does would be a
guy named, I'm blanking. He wrote like a ton of books, the hero with a thousand faces.
He died. Michael, the hero with a thousand faces. Joseph Campbell? Joseph Campbell. Thank you. So
Joseph Campbell has pointed out and written all these books about like the commonalities between
all the world's religions and like the stories that are universal. And they almost feel like
there is some kind of like deeper connection to all of these stories that I don't know that I've
seen some of his stuff, some of his talks. And like, if that were what Christianity were raised,
if I were raised in that, maybe I would have like continued to believe it and not been challenged
or whatever. Yeah. So I don't know, people who are like on the fence, maybe looking to Joseph
Campbell, he seems cool. Yeah, I don't like this is some people really hardcore and they're like,
super anti religion or like they think it should all go away. I think for me, there's like a fundamental
value that it provides. Yes. It does like never like teaching like how to be and just like in
like genuinely good ways to like stories and things like that. Yeah, it is genuinely a
fundamental requirement that we need as a society over the thousands of years. Like there's a lot
of corrupted forms of it and like problems from like the specific flavor of it. So I like don't
want to remove that as a concept because I think people are completely lost. I think when people
need to figure out every little thing for themselves, they just start to go down really weird paths
when like a lot of traditional wisdom just has the right answers for. Yep. And again, people need
to find their own balance. I think people swing towards like, well, none of it. It's funny because
they actually don't end up thinking that they think they're doing this because they're thinking
for themselves, but doing the opposite of what everything the religion said is not thinking for
yourself. You're just doing the opposite of it. Yeah. Yeah. You got to feel like what of it,
what parts of it makes sense? What parts of it maybe don't make sense for you, which is hard,
but you know, I think that's where we have to land. So for me, I know like when I have kids and
when I raise them, something needs to fill that place again. I don't know exactly what it's going
to be like. I know there's things in culture that do that extremely well. I think there's some stuff
from like traditional religions that also do that extremely well. So yeah, we're not to figure out
what that is. But yeah, I like to want to throw away everything. Yeah, you need to hurry up and have
kids because this is a thing Casey and I talk about all the time that we do feel like because
we're both kind of at this, we transitioned through this together actually independently.
Neither one of us really wanted to break it together that we weren't really believing any of
this anymore. But then came to the same conclusions. This is actually really cool. We still talk
about with our kids like we don't want to just we don't want them to be wandering and completely
lost and lacking a lot of the ritual and tradition that like there's a lot of richness to that that
people get and some people just get it. I think what you're saying is like with their culture.
In America, I don't think we have that like I don't think we have a default culture and community
that sort of like thrives outside of a religion. So that's definitely something we feel like we're
lacking because we're both kind of like wandering on our journey of trying to figure out what
spirituality is and we don't want them to be completely, you know, just lost or susceptible to
anything that blows their way. I don't know. Yeah. I definitely see like the impact of religion
on society and how it benefits large people groups. It just when it feels like it's not for you,
then how do you kind of like get the good parts of it for your family? Yeah. I'd like you to
figure that out because I know you're going to figure it out before I do and I've had kids for eight years.
Well, the one thing, the one thing we everyone's going to make fun of me for this, but whatever,
I think it's brilliant. But you know how I named Zuko after that show, The Last Airbender,
I think we've talked about this before. Yeah. The structure of that show is actually very similar
to, I would say a lot of religious texts where it's like a primary character that's traveling and
coming across various scenarios and like through them dealing with a scenario, you learn something
about morality or whatever. Yeah. That's the exact structure of that show. And they do such
a fantastic job of like demonstrating all the nuance and gray area of like things that maybe seem
obvious. And like it teaches such good lessons where I can imagine like we could watch an episode
and then like talk about it after like what did we learn? Like there are a few things coming in my
head like it's in the world, there's like some kind of like war going on. And there's a scenario
where a guy is stuck. He's like about to get crushed, I stuck in a cave. And someone uses
some of the day they come across him and then somebody uses like the power they have to like
to free him. But they're not supposed to use that power because that pressing force is saying that
you can't use it. So rescue this guy and the guy's grateful. But the guy that they saved
turns turns and turns him in to the back. So even though he was saved. So it's like there's
really interesting thing on like, is that guy bad? Like whose fault is it? Like he like stabbed
that guy in the back even though he was saved. But in situations like this, like this is kind of
how people act. They like are like really stressed by this larger force and you can't really 100%
blame them. Like yeah, he did do the wrong thing by turning this guy in. But also this is kind of
what happened in situations like that, right? So like it like handled all these like really
nuanced things really, really well. And I think that's like ideally what you want from something
like this. Yeah, no, that sounds awesome. So we'll just turn on what was it called Airbender?
The last Airbender. It's like a lot of seasons. Is there a lot of these episodes for seasons?
Yeah, I mean, I think, I don't know, but I don't know if Archer's old enough to watch it,
but Ace definitely is old enough to be into it. Yeah, it's fantastic. Even as an adult just to
like learn about learn about life and all those things. And I don't understand how the creators did
this because I realized they were actually around my age when they created the show. I was like,
wow, they could like do all this. They had all this wisdom and they could like communicate it in
this like interesting way at my age. Like that's really insane. But again, it borrows ideas from like
religions from all over the world, their ideas from all over the world. It's pretty good.
Yeah, so we're, I guess we've kind of like, we've talked about a lot of religion. Where do you land
on like spirituality as like a human concept? Or just like a thing that we need or don't need?
Do you have thoughts on that? Yeah, I think it's just like it's personal like Liz. Obviously grew
up Catholic but moved away from more of like the practical side of it. But she still is like very
spiritual and she still prays every day and like does a lot of things. That's a big part of her life.
And it's important for her. I don't, I just don't have that. I never really had that as a habit.
Same. I've never felt, I've never felt like a spiritual person. And I don't know like,
then when you have religion without any kind of like feeling like you're spiritual at all,
it's just like, what am I doing this for? Really random. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it always felt a little
awkward for me. But then I don't know if I should be developing some kind of spiritual
body. Like if I'm lacking something that's just like would be very beneficial in life,
both for me and for my family. Like I don't know if I'm just accepting that I'm like this very
materialistic whatever person is materialistic, the opposite of spirit. I don't know. Like everything
that I can see and touch that's the only thing that matters. Yeah, material world. Yeah. I'm kind
of the same way, but yeah, I'm also a little bit, I can see myself developing more of that at some
point because yeah, maybe lost interest in it. That's something like maybe I think at some
a young age kind of lost interest in it. I was never developed it again, but I can see myself
getting into it. If I imagine it, it's not something I'm like, I hate that. It's like, oh, I can see how
at some point I can get into that. But yeah, it's just not something that even clicks or registers
for me right now. Same. I don't even know how I would like work on it. Like honestly, it
doesn't feel like a skill like I'm like, try to flex. I think I was just trying to change the
subject. It's really hard to talk about religion and spirituality. I only recently had the conversation
with my parents like in the last eight months, six months, something like that. Yeah, yeah,
it's been very recent. Yeah, no, it's just it's hard. I don't know. Maybe it's this area. It's a very
monoculture where I live. Just like, you kind of feel like you're going to get kicked out of the camp
if you don't align with a set of things. Yeah, it's a me even here. Like I said, if we're not going to
send our kids to like school school, I don't think we're going to homeschool them. But
if we want to, and if we need to, because we can't figure out the homeschool thing,
the only option are Catholic schools pretty much because public schools are not good. So we would
have to send our kids to Catholic school. And this is a funniest concept to me. Like, I'm imagining
my kid like following things that are like just so random from my point of view, because it's like,
what the hell? Like, I don't know about any of this stuff. And there's technically like,
the parents get roped it. They're like, you have to go to church. And you get your kids get in
trouble where like, like, the school has a weird power over you somehow. I don't really understand
this. And I'm like, I'm going to start doing all this stuff. That's just like, for me, like just so
random. It's like a weird situation I find myself in. And all of those as friends who
all complained about like how stupid some of this stuff at the private schools they went to
are saying their kids is the exact same school, because it's not a big deal. Like, they're still
with decent schools and like, it's not like the worst thing in the world. But yeah, it just is
the only option. And I'm like, if I find myself doing that one day, it's just going to be like,
I would have just never guessed that. Yeah, yeah. It's the same way. I mean, we have most of the
private schools here are Christian private schools in Catholic. I don't know. It's that same thing.
I just offended so many people. I think from my experience, it's super different. I feel like,
I think the difference is that I think in Catholicism is the one where you can confess, right? Yeah.
Like the priest and you go in and you confess. Yeah, yeah. Can you do that in Christianity?
I did. I mean, it doesn't. No, it's not a concept that I'm aware of.
I think that that has a huge difference because I feel like Catholic people are like insane.
I feel like they're like way more like crazy, like crazy, really, like, like more like,
bought in because they can just try to find a positive reset. They can confess and reset. It feels like,
it almost feels like they just don't have religion. And given this idea of like,
you can confess and still be good. That just makes them do more crazy stuff, you know.
So I think it in practice is pretty different. Yeah. I mean, it's like, when you zoom out, though,
if you look at it from like a completely detached view, it's like, well, they're pretty similar.
Like if you consider all the world's religions, like, yeah, it's true. It's funny.
Well, even within Christianity, just the number of like different beliefs and different groups of
people that hold different beliefs and denominations and there's like, there's crazy variety even within
one religion when you zoom in close enough. It's kind of like a cup of water. Look how I just
brought that back. Oh my God. Look how I just brought back the cup of water and all the little
tiny molecules. Do you ever really though, do you ever think about like the big questions?
Like why? Do you ever think about that? Okay. So there's one that me and Liz always talk about and
we don't have an answer for it, obviously, but we have a different concept that's funny. I want
to see if you relate. So there's this concept of like, why something instead of nothing, right?
Yeah. And if you sit and really think about it, I experience this really weird feeling when I try
to think about it and Liz experiences the exact same feeling. The feeling is my brain like,
it feels like my brain shuts off or like it just impossible for me to actually think about it.
And it feels like someone put like a block, some like censored my brain from being able to access
this thought process. It feels like every time I try to think about like, why is there anything
instead of just really nothing like I get this weird feeling literally feels like we're in a
simulation and like we're not allowed to think about that one topic. You're hitting the edge,
like you're bumping up against the boundary. Yeah, because I can't I just can't ponder that
at all. It's just like just my brain just just stops. Yeah, I don't I've never thought about like
that or I've never had that sensation, but I've definitely tried to think about
some of these things and then you just can't. It's like your brain can't really comprehend
much of it at all. I mean, it's just like, anytime I spend time thinking about that question,
just the why question it's it's kind of like there's why I asked the question. There's just no, I'm not
going to get anywhere with it. I'm not going to like connect deeper with myself on some level that I
don't know. It's just it's like there's no answering it. And that's kind of fun. I don't know. It's kind
of fun to me. The mystery of all of it. All of this. Have you seen that Richard Feynman thing?
Beauty. Yeah. Yes. Because I mean talks a lot about that. 100%. If you want to know how I view the
world, my spirituality, my whatever, my views, that video so sums up so perfectly how I feel. And I
know like putting myself on Richard Feynman's level, like, yeah, sure. He relates with me a lot.
No, I just like when seeing that video, you sent it to me. Oh, okay. It just like so perfectly
put words to things and thoughts about doubt about all these things that, yeah, it really that that's
about as close to spirituality as I think I've ever felt like I had an experience. I'm getting
goosebumps just like remembering the video. It's such a good video. So now we got to put the link
in the in the show notes or something. If you just search Richard Feynman beauty on YouTube,
you'll find it because it's like it's a video and he's narrating over it. And it's like he speaks
about this just like so beautifully and well. I love him as a human. Like I think in so many
different ways, I feel like he like I just feel like he lived life like to the fullest in so many
ways. Like obviously was all the science stuff, obviously. But then like I don't know if you've seen
his like his letter to his wife after she died. No, it's like insanely beautiful. Like I like
getting like so he like lived the relationship in romance part of his life really well as well.
And then he was like he like played the bongos. He had all these other thoughts and those other
things. I was like he just we just wanted it all. He like had everything. I love life and wanted
every part of it. He said definitely someone I admire a lot. Yep. I've got the letter pulled up.
I know I'm gonna I'm gonna lose it. I'm gonna read it here on this completely break down.
Yeah. Okay. So now I want to say like if you're offended, I feel like some people are gonna be
offended. I know at least my parents are offended listening to this. So I just have to say like if
you're offended, just like maybe talk to me first of all, don't just like stew and be offended.
But like my goal is not to offend you. I don't want to offend anybody. It's just not my goal.
Like I don't I'm not trying to attack anybody or make you feel bad for how you believe or what you
I guess like saying that you brainwashed me. Like maybe that feels like an attack.
We've had that conversation. Now I'm just talking about parents. I'm gonna stop.
It's just a complicated subject. You know, it's just a complicated like there's a lot of time and
emotion and other things invested into it that people it's just a hard conversation to have.
But don't don't be offended and not say something. Come to me. We can talk about it.
Yeah. It is complex topic. What do you say? Yeah. What do you say to that back? I mean,
you can't have nothing to say to that. No, I don't have anything to say to that.
I this it seems very personal for you and and you're between you and your parents.
So I don't I really am singling out my parents. It's not just my parents. It's like
it's just this whole it's just my whole life. I mean, it's everybody I know. It's
it's like you just kind of have to like, okay, so that's not true. There's plenty of people in
this area. No, you know what? I want to stop. I'm gonna stop. I've talked enough about my history
and my background. I don't need to never mind. Listen, it's okay. Everyone so loves you.
Okay, that's good. That's it. I feel better. I feel better now. I'm going to watch the Richard
Feimann video again. And then cried. Yeah. And then cried, read his letter to his wife. Oh,
geez, that kind of stuff. Did you see the poem that was making the rounds on Twitter? Yeah.
It's like dadless grasses. Oh my word. I refuse to read it. I read like two lines and I was like,
I'm not going to do this too much. It's too much. I will say, too, like on the topic of religion
spirituality, having kids definitely amplifies this whole conversation a whole not. It definitely
raises the stakes of all of it because you do start like, I don't know, you just think about
the finiteness of our lives, the mortality, the mortality, is that the word? Yeah. I don't know.
You just think about like, it's hard to imagine time without your kids once you have kids,
not that if you don't have kids, you can't experience these. I'm just saying like,
it definitely amps up the stakes, I guess. Yeah, I refuse to think about any of those things.
I'm just going to continue to think about how I'm going to be a disembodied head floating. Oh, yeah,
you're going to float around space forever. So you're not going to be with me.
Okay, well, we've already gone so long. I'm just going to go a little bit longer because
is that okay? Do you need to go? No, I'm okay. So I will say like, I definitely went through a
stretch when I was first, I'm going to say leaving the faith that just sounds like a priest or something.
It's just like the phrase that came to mind and like, that is, that is what it is. I definitely
went through a stretch when those when I was really feeling like this is I don't, I just don't
believe those things and I don't want to associate with that group an existential dread that I had
never experienced before that because before that you had answers. It's like, this is what's going
to happen. You're going to die and you're going to be in, you know, eternal bliss with not everyone
you love or whatever forever. Once you leave that, then it is this overwhelming sense of like,
we're going to die and then we're not going to exist. Sorry, I did it. I talked about
a thing you said you refused to think about, but like, it's a hard thing to think about.
I'm not going to engage with you on this because I just, I just don't.
Yeah, yeah, totally fair. Just keep talking.
For what it's worth, I ultimately, when I land on that, that like, that thought that like,
all of this is for nothing, I just don't accept it. I just don't believe that. I'm not saying I
believe there's like a person up above the stars that's like controlling things or that there's a
god or that we're all got. I don't have any specific beliefs of anything. I just refuse to
accept that it's all for nothing. I just think there's, there's some mystery to it. And that's
where I land. I don't know. Does that make me spiritual? Am I a spiritual person?
I think so. That's like a belief in something you can't literally see. Yeah.
But you feel it in your, in your core that it has to be that way.
Wait, why that? Because I feel like there's a lot of things I believe that I can't see.
I believe electricity works. I can't see it.
No, but you, the reason you believe it is because you know there's an explanation even if you don't.
I don't know though. I almost like love that I don't know much of anything.
You don't know like, what do you mean? Like I don't, I don't know. Like it could just be random.
And this could all just be stupid. And why are we spending our time talking on a podcast?
Are you talking about electricity? Are you talking about what you just talked about?
Oh, no, no, no, the, the life thing, the existence, you know, there's something instead of nothing.
That, that thing. Yeah, I think for me that just has never been that important of a question.
I think people ask me like, oh, this is all for nothing. I don't, I don't know.
It just like doesn't even click to me as a good question. So I think if I do think about it, like,
yeah, I also feel like it's too weird that there is even something instead of just there being
nothing. So it's that that owns already like a very special, amazing, incredible thing.
So yeah, that's, that's like enough for me for to feel like, okay, I guess that's like spiritual as
well. Yeah, I do feel like this is a touchy subject. I don't know, like, maybe you're not the only one
that feels like, you don't want me to talk about it. I'm gonna stop talking. Because maybe people
listening, like, I don't want to think about this. Just like stop thinking about it. This was good.
It was something. It was, it was good for me. I don't know if it was good for anybody that happens
to listen. But it was good for me. Was it good for you? I think we're out of the big topics now.
Oh, we are. This one. Shut it down. 33 episodes. Well, I mean, we could go back to not talking about
huge earth shadows. I think people that not into these huge, crazy things, we're, I think we're out.
We'll get back then. We'll just be talking about like PHP next week or something,
something that's much easier to think about. There's some joke in there that I'm not able to
put it together in a spot and have something about like, well, Laraville forever. There's one.
I mean, I can't, I can't forget the joke. Something about like believing in PHP without ever having
hosted. There's something there. That's it. That's it. That's the joke. That's the concert joke. You are spiritual. Yeah, there you go. Spiritual believer of PHP. It's funny. Everyone is keep saying that every episode we record. There's always someone saying that Adam is doing
therapy in public. I really, it seems like it doesn't. So I will say, I don't know if I said this on that last episode where things got a little unhinged. But I feel like I'm
better from like a emotional health, mental health standpoint. I'm better than I've been
for a long time. I feel like, but I'm definitely susceptible to like talk therapy is good for me. Like my problems, but I get into isolation and all these things. I think talk therapy is very helpful. So yeah, an element of this is a therapy for me every time I get on a call. So I'm sorry, Dax.
No, it's not your my friend because there's a, I don't know if you know what Esther Parela is, but she's like one of the most famous. I see she's like, I don't know what her actual title is, but I've not heard that. He's a very famous therapist. And she does a podcast where I've never actually heard it. Let's listen to it or she has listen to it. It's just therapy sessions that people have agreed to be posted publicly. Yeah. And they obviously anonymize a person and she's like an incredibly good therapist. It's always, I think it's always couple therapy.
And it's a very successful, popular podcast. So well, maybe we can have her on and we do some couples therapy.
Yeah, just reach out. Another hour episode. Look at that. People can, people can listen to on two X. Yeah, that's right. We're just not listening. If you don't want to, maybe they hear the beginning and like we're going to talk about religion. They just check out. Okay, let's actually go. Bye, Dax.
I actually like while we're in a part that's being cut out, I actually like that we have little things we can say that are just like just for the live show. You have to come join us here on Twitch. Otherwise you miss it. Okay.